===== PAGE 1 COL 1 =====
4
2
0
2
n
a
J
1
2
]
L
C
.
s
c
[
1
v
0
8
6
1
0
.
2
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a
===== PAGE 1 COL 2 =====
Nitesh V. Chawla1 , Olaf Wiest1 , Xiangliang Zhang1†
1University of Notre Dame
2
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
3Southern University of Science and Technology
4
Unaffliated
5University of Massachusetts Boston
{ }
tguo2, nchawla, owiest, xzhang33 @nd.edu, xiuying.chen@kaust.edu.sa, ywang84@nd.edu,
ruidic@alumni.cmu.edu, shichao.pei@umb.edu
Abstract Liang et al., 2023]. Hence, LLM-based agent has been stud-
ied and rapidly developed to understand and generate human-
Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved re- like instructions, facilitating sophisticated interactions and
markable success across a wide array of tasks. decision-making in a wide range of contexts [Yao et al.,
Due to the impressive planning and reasoning abil-
2023; Shinn et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023d]. Timely survey
ities of LLMs, they have been used as autonomous
papers systematically summarize the progress of LLM-based
agents to do many tasks automatically. Recently, agents, as seen in works [Xi et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2023b].
based on the development of using one LLM as a
single planning or decision-making agent, LLM- Based on the inspiring capabilities of the single LLM-
based multi-agent systems have achieved consid- based agent, LLM-based Multi-Agents have been proposed
erable progress in complex problem-solving and to leverage the collective intelligence and specialized pro-
world simulation. To provide the community with files and skills of multiple agents. Compared to systems us-
an overview of this dynamic field, we present this ing a single LLM-powered agent, multi-agent systems offer
survey to offer an in-depth discussion on the essen- advanced capabilities by 1) specializing LLMs into various
tial aspects of multi-agent systems based on LLMs, distinct agents, each with different capabilities, and 2) en-
as well as the challenges. Our goal is for readers to abling interactions among these diverse agents to simulate
gain substantial insights on the following questions: complex real-world environments effectively. In this context,
What domains and environments do LLM-based multiple autonomous agents collaboratively engage in plan-
multi-agents simulate? How are these agents pro- ning, discussions, and decision-making, mirroring the co-
filed and how do they communicate? What mech- operative nature of human group work in problem-solving
anisms contribute to the growth of agents’ capaci- tasks. This approach capitalizes on the communicative ca-
ties? For those interested in delving into this field pabilities of LLMs, leveraging their ability to generate text
for communication and respond to textual inputs. Further-
of study, we also summarize the commonly used
datasets or benchmarks for them to have convenient more, it exploits LLMs’ extensive knowledge across vari-
access. To keep researchers updated on the latest ous domains and their latent potential to specialize in spe-
studies, we maintain an open-source GitHub repos- cific tasks. Recent research has demonstrated promising re-
sults in utilizing LLM-based multi-agents for solving vari-
itory, dedicated to outlining the research on LLM-
based multi-agent systems. ous tasks, such as software development [Hong et al., 2023;
Qian et al., 2023], multi-robot systems [Mandi et al., 2023;
] [
Zhang et al., 2023c , society simulation Park et al., 2023;
1 Introduction Park et al., 2022], policy simulation [Xiao et al., 2023;
Hua et al., 2023], and game simulation [Xu et al., 2023c;
Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently shown re-
Wang et al., 2023c]. Due to the nature of interdisciplinary
markable potential in reaching a level of reasoning and plan-
study in this field, it has attracted a diverse range of re-
ning capabilities comparable to humans. This ability ex-
searchers, expanding beyond AI experts to include those from
actly aligns with the expectations of humans for autonomous
social science, psychology, and policy research. The vol-
agents that can perceive the surroundings, make decisions,
ume of research papers is rapidly increasing, as shown in
and take actions in response [Xi et al., 2023; Wooldridge and
[ ]
Jennings, 1995; Russell and Norvig, 2009; Guo et al., 2023; Fig. 1 (inspired by the design in Gao et al., 2023b ), thus
broadening the impact of LLM-based Multi-Agent research.
∗ Nonetheless, earlier efforts were undertaken independently,
This work was done when Yaqi and Ruidi were visiting students
at the University of Notre Dame. resulting in an absence of a systematic review to summarize
†
Corresponding author. them, establish comprehensive blueprint of this field, and ex-
===== PAGE 2 =====
Figure 1: The rising trend in the research field of LLM-based Multi-Agents. For Problem Solving and World Simulation, we categorize
current work into several categories and count the number of papers of different types at 3-month intervals. The number at each leaf node
denotes the count of papers within that category.
amine future research challenges. This underscores the sig- present a comprehensive schema for positioning, differenti-
nificance of our work and serves as the motivation behind pre- ating, and connecting various aspects of LLM-MA systems
senting this survey paper, dedicated to the research on LLM- in Section 3. We delve into this question by discussing: 1)
based multi-agent systems. the agents-environment interface, which details how agents
We expect that our survey can make significant contribu- interact with the task environment; 2) agent profiling, which
tions to both the research and development of LLMs and to explains how an agent is characterized by an LLM to behave
a wider range of interdisciplinary studies employing LLMs. in specific ways; 3) agent communication, which examines
Readers will gain a comprehensive overview of LLM-based how agents exchange messages and collaborate; and 4) agent
Multi-Agent (LLM-MA) systems, grasp the fundamental capability acquisition, which explores how agents develop
concepts involved in establishing multi-agent systems based their abilities to effectively solve problems. An additional
on LLMs, and catch the latest research trends and applica- perspective for reviewing studies about LLM-MA is their ap-
tions in this dynamic field. We recognize that this field is in plication. In Section 4, we categorize current applications
its early stages and is rapidly evolving with fresh methodolo- into two primary streams: multi-agents for problem-solving
gies and applications. To provide a sustainable resource com- and multi-agents for world simulation. To guide individuals
plementing our survey paper, we maintain an open-source in identifying appropriate tools and resources, we present
1 open-source implementation frameworks for studying LLM-
GitHub repository . We hope that our survey will inspire fur-
ther exploration and innovation in this field, as well as appli- MA, as well as the usable datasets and benchmarks in Sec-
cations across a wide array of research disciplines. tion 5. Based on the previous summary, we open the dis-
To assist individuals from various backgrounds in under- cussion for future research challenges and opportunities in
Section 6. The conclusions are summarized in Section 7.
standing LLM-MA techniques and to complement existing
surveys by tackling unresolved questions, we have organized
our survey paper in the following manner. After laying out 2 Background
the background knowledge in Section 2, we address a piv-
2.1 Single-Agent Systems Powered LLMs
otal question: How are LLM-MA systems aligned with the
collaborative task-solving environment? To answer this, we We introduce the background by first outlining the capabili-
ties of a single-agent system based on LLMs, following the
1 [ ]
https://github.com/taichengguo/LLM MultiAgents Survey Papers discussion presented in Weng, 2023 .
===== PAGE 3 =====
Decision-making Thought: This term denotes the capabil- the environment, which in turn influences their behavior and
ity of LLM-based agents, guided by prompts, to break down decision making. For example, in the Werewolf Game simu-
[ et al. ]
complex tasks into smaller subgoals Khot , 2023 , think lation, the sandbox environment sets the game’s framework,
through each part methodically (sometimes exploring mul- including transitions from day to night, discussion periods,
tiple paths) [Yao et al., 2023], and learn from past experi- voting mechanics, and reward rules. Agents, such as were-
ences [Shinn et al., 2023] to perform better decision-making wolves and the Seer, perform specific actions like killing or
on complex tasks. This capability enhances the autonomy checking roles. Following these actions, agents receive feed-
of a single LLM-based agent and bolsters its effectiveness in back from the environment, informing them of the game’s
problem-solving. current state. This information guides the agents in adjust-
ing their strategies over time, responding to the evolving
Tool-use: LLM-based agents’ tool-use capability allows
gameplay and interactions with other agents. The Agents-
them to leverage external tools and resources to accom-
Environment Interface refers to the way in which agents in-
plish tasks, enhancing their functional capabilities and oper-
teract with and perceive the environment. It’s through this
ate more effectively in diverse and dynamic environments [Li
interface that agents understand their surroundings, make de-
et al., 2023d; Ruan et al., 2023; Gao et al., 2023b].
cisions, and learn from the outcomes of their actions. We
Memory: This ability refers to the capability of LLM- categorize the current interfaces in LLM-MA systems into
based agent for conducting in-context learning [Dong et al.,
three types, Sandbox, Physcial, and None, as detailed in Ta-
2023a] as short memory or external vector database [Lewis et
ble 1. The Sandbox refers to a simulated or virtual environ-
al., 2021] as long memory to preserve and retrieve informa- ment built by human where agents can interact more freely
[ ]
tion over prolonged periods Wang et al., 2023b . This ability and experiment with various actions and strategies. This kind
enables a single LLM-based agent to maintain contextual co-
of interface is widely used in software development (code
herence and enhance learning from interactions. [ ]
interpreter as simulated environment) Hong et al., 2023 ,
gaming (using game rules as simulated environment) [Mao
2.2 Single-Agent VS. Multi-Agent Systems
et al., 2023], etc. The Physical is a real-world environment
Single-Agent systems empowered by LLMs have shown in- where agents interact with physical entities and obey real-
[ ]
spiring cognitive abilities Sumers et al., 2023 . The con- world physics and constraints. In physical space, agents nor-
struction of such systems concentrates on formulating their mally need to take actions that can have direct physical out-
internal mechanisms and interactions with the external en- comes. For example, in tasks such as sweeping the floor,
vironment. Conversely, LLM-MA systems emphasize di- making sandwiches, packing groceries, and arranging cab-
inets, robotic agents are required to perform actions itera-
verse agent profiles, inter-agent interactions, and collective
decision-making processes. From this perspective, more dy- tively, observe the physical environment, and continuously
namic and complex tasks can be tackled by the collaboration refine their actions [Mandi et al., 2023]. Lastly, None refers
of multiple autonomous agents, each of which is equipped to scenarios where there is no specific external environment,
and agents do not interact with any environment. For exam-
with unique strategies and behaviors, and engaged in com-
munication with one another. ple, many applications [Du et al., 2023; Xiong et al., 2023;
Chan et al., 2023] utilize multiple agents to debate a ques-
3 Dissecting LLM-MA Systems: Interface, tion to reach a consensus. These applications primarily focus
on communication among agents and do not depend on the
Profiling, Communication, and Capabilities
external environment.
In this section, we delve into the intricacies of LLM-MA sys-
3.2 Agents Profiling
tems, where multiple autonomous agents engage in collabo-
rative activities akin to human group dynamics in problem-
In LLM-MA systems, agents are defined by their traits, ac-
solving scenarios. A critical inquiry we address is how
tions, and skills, which are tailored to meet specific goals.
these LLM-MA systems are aligned to their operational envi- Across various systems, agents assume distinct roles, each
ronments and the collective objectives they are designed to with comprehensive descriptions encompassing characteris-
achieve. To shed light on this, we present the general ar-
tics, capabilities, behaviors, and constraints. For instance,
chitecture of these systems in Fig. 2. Our analysis dissects
in gaming environments, agents might be profiled as players
the operational framework of these systems, focusing on four with varying roles and skills, each contributing differently to
key aspects: the agents-environment interface, agent profil- the game’s objectives. In software development, agents could
ing, agent communication, and agent capability acquisition.
take on the roles of product managers and engineers, each
with responsibilities and expertise that guide the development
3.1 Agents-Environment Interface
process. Similarly, in a debating platform, agents might be
The operational environments defines the specific contexts or designated as proponents, opponents, or judges, each with
settings in which the LLM-MA systems are deployed and unique functions and strategies to fulfill their roles effectively.
interact. For example, these environments can be like soft- These profiles are crucial for defining the agents’ interactions
ware development [Hong et al., 2023], gaming [Mao et al., and effectiveness within their respective environments. Table
2023], and various other domains such as financial markets 1 lists the agent Profiles in recent LLM-MA works.
[Li et al., 2023g] or even social behavior modeling [Park et Regarding the Agent Profiling Methods, we categorized
al. ] Pre-defined, Model-Generated
, 2023 . The LLM-based agents perceive and act within them into three types: , and
===== PAGE 4 =====
Figure 2: The Architecture of LLM-MA Systems.
Data-Derived Pre-defined
. In the cases, agent profiles are
explicitly defined by the system designers. The Model-
Generated method creates agent profiles by models, e.g.,
large language models. The Data-Derived method involves
constructing agent profiles based on pre-existing datasets.
3.3 Agents Communication
The communication between agents in LLM-MA systems is
the critical infrastructure supporting collective intelligence.
We dissect agent communication from three perspectives: 1)
Communication Paradigms: the styles and methods of in-
teraction between agents; 2) Communication Structure: the
organization and architecture of communication networks
within the multi-agent system; and 3) Communication Con-
tent exchanged between agents.
Communication Paradigms: Current LLM-MA systems
mainly take three paradigms for communication: Coopera-
tive, Debate, and Competitive. Cooperative agents work to-
gether towards a shared goal or objectives, typically exchang-
Figure 3: The Agent Communication Structure.
ing information to enhance a collective solution. The Debate
paradigm is employed when agents engage in argumentative
interactions, presenting and defending their own viewpoints
introduces a framework called Dynamic LLM-Agent Net-
or solutions, and critiquing those of others. This paradigm
work (DyLAN), which organizes agents in a multi-layered
is ideal for reaching a consensus or a more refined solution.
feed-forward network. This setup facilitates dynamic inter-
Competitive agents work towards their own goals that might
actions, incorporating features like inference-time agent se-
be in conflict with the goals of other agents.
lection and an early-stopping mechanism, which collectively
Communication Structure: Fig. 3 shows four typical enhance the efficiency of cooperation among agents. De-
communication structures in LLM-MA systems. Layered centralized communication operates on a peer-to-peer net-
communication is structured hierarchically, with agents at work, where agents directly communicate with each other,
each level having distinct roles and primarily interacting a structure commonly employed in world simulation appli-
[ et al. ]
within their layer or with adjacent layers. Liu , 2023 cations. Centralized communication involves a central agent
===== PAGE 5 =====
or a group of central agents coordinating the system’s com- ous interactions and feedback in their memory. When per-
munication, with other agents primarily interacting through forming actions, they can retrieve relevant, valuable memo-
Shared Message Pool
this central node. is proposed by ries, particularly those containing successful actions for simi-
MetaGPT [Hong et al., 2023] to improve the communication lar past goals, as highlighted in [Wang et al., 2023b]. This
efficiency. This communication structure maintains a shared process aids in enhancing their current actions. 2) Self-
message pool where agents publish messages and subscribe Evolution. Instead of only relying on the historical records
to relevant messages based on their profiles, thereby boosting to decide subsequent actions as seen in Memory-based solu-
communication efficiency. tions, agents can dynamically self-evolve by modifying them-
selves such as altering their initial goals and planning strate-
Communication Content: In LLM-MA systems, the
gies, and training themselves based on feedback or commu-
Communication Content typically takes the form of text. The
nication logs. [Nascimento et al., 2023] proposes a self-
specific content varies widely and depends on the particular
control loop process to allow each agent in the multi-agents
application. For example, in software development, agents
systems to be self-managed and self-adaptive to dynamic en-
may communicate with each other about code segments. In
vironments, thereby improving the cooperation efficiency of
simulations of games like Werewolf, agents might discuss
multiple agents. [Zhang et al., 2023b] introduces ProA-
their analyses, suspicions, or strategies.
gent which anticipates teammates’ decisions and dynami-
3.4 Agents Capabilities Acquisition cally adjusts each agent’s strategies based on the communi-
cation logs between agents, facilitating mutual understand-
The Agents Capabilities Acquisition is a crucial process in
ing and improving collaborative planning capability. [Wang
LLM-MA, enabling agents to learn and evolve dynamically.
et al., 2023a] discusses a Learning through Communication
In this context, there are two fundamental concepts: the types
(LTC) paradigm, using the communication logs of multi-
of feedback from which agents should learn to enhance their
agents to generate datasets to train or fine-tune LLMs. LTC
capabilities, and the strategies for agents to adjust themselves
enables continuous adaptation and improvement of agents
to effectively solve complex problems.
through interaction with their environments and other agents,
Feedback: Feedback involves the critical information that
breaking the limits of in-context learning or supervised fine-
agents receive about the outcome of their actions, helping the
tuning, which don’t fully utilize the feedback received dur-
agents learn the potential impact of their actions and adapt ing interactions with the environment and external tools
to complex and dynamic problems. In most studies, the for- for continuous training. Self-Evolution enables agents’ au-
mat of feedback provided to agents is textual. Based on the
tonomous adjustment in their profiles or goals, rather than
sources from which agents receive this feedback, it can be just learning from historical interactions. 3) Dynamic Gen-
categorized into four types. 1) Feedback from Environ- eration. In some scenarios, the system can generate new
ment, e.g., from either real world environments or virtual agents on-the-fly during its operation [Chen et al., 2023a;
environments [Wang et al., 2023b]. It is prevalent in most ]
Chen et al., 2023c . This capability enables the system to
LLM-MA for problem-solving scenarios, including Software scale and adapt effectively, as it can introduce agents that are
Development (agents obtain feedback from Code Interpreter), specifically designed to address current needs and challenges.
and Embodied multi-agents systems (robots obtain feedback With the scaling up LLM-MA with a larger number of
from real-world or Simulated environments). 2) Feedback
agents, the escalating complexity of managing various kinds
from Agents Interactions means that the feedback comes Agents Orchestration
of agents has been a critical problem.
from the judgement of other agents or from agents communi- emerged as a pivotal challenge and began to gain attention
cations. It is common in problem-solving scenarios like sci-
in [Moura, 2023; Dibia, 2023]. We will further discuss this
ence debates, where agents learn to critically evaluate and re-
topic in Section 6.4.
fine the conclusions through communications. In world sim-
ulation scenarios such as Game Simulation, agents learn to
4 Applications
refine strategies based on previous interactions between other
agents. 3) Human Feedback comes directly from humans LLM-MA systems have been used in a wide range of appli-
and is crucial for aligning the multi-agent system with hu- cations. We summarize two kinds of applications in Table 1:
man values and preferences. This kind of feedback is widely Problem Solving and World Simulation. We elaborate on
used in most “Human-in-the-loop” applications [Wang et al., these applications below. Note that this is a fast growing re-
2021]. Last 4) None. In some cases, there is no feedback pro- search field and new applications appear almost everyday. We
vided to the agents. This often happens for world simulation maintain an open source repository to report the latest work.
works focused on analyzing simulated results rather than the
planning capabilities of agents. In such scenarios, like prop- 4.1 LLM-MA for Problem Solving
agation simulation, the emphasis is on result analysis, and
The main motivation of using LLM-MA for problem solving
hence, feedback is not a component of the system.
is to harness the collective capabilities of agents with spe-
Agents Adjustment to Complex Problems: To enhance cialized expertise. These agents, each acting as individuals,
their capabilities, agents in LLM-MA systems can adapt collaborate to address complex problems effectively, such as
through three main solutions. 1) Memory. Most LLM- software development, embodied agents, science experiments
MA systems leverage a memory module for agents to ad- and science debate. These application examples are intro-
just their behavior. Agents store information from previ- duced next.
===== PAGE 6 =====
Agents
Agents-Env. Agents Profiling Agents Capabilities Acquisition
Interface Communication
Motivation Research Domain & Goals Work Profiling Profiles Agents
Paradigms Structure Feedback from
methods (examples) Adjustment
Pre-defined, CTO, Environment, Memory,
Sandbox Cooperative Layered Agent interaction,
[Qian et al., 2023] Model-Generated programmer Self-Evolution
Human
Product Manager, Layered, Environment, Memory,
Software development [ ] Sandbox Pre-defined Cooperative Agent interaction,
Hong et al., 2023 Engineer Shared Message Pool Self-Evolution
Human
Pre-defined, Analyst, Environment, Memory,
[ ] Sandbox Cooperative Layered
Dong et al., 2023b Model-Generated coder Agent interaction Self-Evolution
Multi-robot Sandbox, Pre-defined Robots Cooperative Centralized, Environment, Memory
planning [Chen et al., 2023d] Physical Decentralized Agent interaction
Embodied Multi-robot Sandbox, Environment,
Agents collaboration [Mandi et al., 2023] Physical Pre-defined Robots Cooperative Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
Multi-Agents Environment,
Problem [Zhang et al., 2023c] Sandbox Pre-defined Robots Cooperative Decentralized Memory
cooperation Agent interaction
Solving Strategy planers,
Science Optimization Environment,
[Zheng et al., 2023] Physical Pre-defined literature Cooperative Centralized Memory
Experiments of MOF Human
collector, coder
Improving
[Du et al., 2023] None Pre-defined Agents Debate Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
Factuality
Proponent,
Science Examining, Centralized,
[Xiong et al., 2023] None Pre-defined Opponent, Debate Agent interaction Memory
Debate Inter-Consistency Decentralized
Judge
Evaluators Centralized,
[Chan et al., 2023] None Pre-defined Agents Debate Agent interaction Memory
for debates Decentralized
Multi-Agents Cardiology, Debate, Centralized,
None Pre-defined Agent interaction Memory
for Medication [Tang et al., 2023] Surgery Cooperative Decentralized
Modest Community Pharmacy, Environment,
(25 persons) [Park et al., 2023] Sandbox Model-generated shopkeeper - - Agent interaction Memory
Online community Pre-defined, Camping, Dynamic
[Park et al., 2022] None - - Agent interaction
(1000 persons) Model-generated fishing Generation
Pre-defined, Real-world
Society Emotion propagation [Gao et al., 2023a] None - - Agent interaction Memory
Model-generated user
Real-time Real-world Environment,
Sandbox Pre-defined - - Memory
social interactions [Kaiya et al., 2023] user Agent interaction
NIN, NINL,
Opinion dynamics [Li et al., 2023a] None Pre-defined NIL - - Agent interaction Memory
Seer, Cooperative,
[Xu et al., 2023b] Environment,
World WereWolf Sandbox Pre-defined werewolf, Debate, Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
[Xu et al., 2023c] villager Competitive
Simulation
Servant, Cooperative,
Gaming Avalon [Light et al., 2023a] Sandbox Pre-defined Merlin, Debate, Decentralized Environment, Memory
[ ] Agent interaction
Wang et al., 2023c Assassin Competitive
Welfare Diplomacy Sandbox Pre-defined Countries Cooperative, Decentralized Environment, Memory
[Mukobi et al., 2023] Competitive Agent interaction
Human behavior
Simulation [Aher et al., 2023] Sandbox Pre-defined Humans - - Agent interaction Memory
Psychology Collaboration Cooperative,
[Zhang et al., 2023d] None Pre-defined Agents Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
Exploring Debate
Macroeconomic Pre-defined,
[ ] None Labor Cooperative Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
simulation Li et al., 2023e Model-generated
Economy Information Sandbox Pre-defined, Buyer Cooperative, Decentralized Environment, Memory
Marketplaces [Anonymous, 2023] Data-Derived Competitive Agent interaction
Improving Environment,
financial trading [Li et al., 2023g] Physical Pre-defined Trader Debate Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
Pre-defined, Restaurant, Environment, Memory,
Economic theories [Zhao et al., 2023] Sandbox Competitive Decentralized
Model-Generated Customer Agent interaction Self-Evolution
Simulating Users from
Recommender [Zhang et al., 2023a] Sandbox Data-Derived - - Environment Memory
user behaviors MovieLens-1M
Systems Simulating user-item Pre-defined, User Agents Environment,
Sandbox Cooperative Decentralized Memory
interactions [Zhang et al., 2023e] Data-Derived Item Agents Agent interaction
Public
Policy Administration [Xiao et al., 2023] None Pre-defined Residents Cooperative Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
Making
War Simulation [Hua et al., 2023] None Pre-defined Countries Competitive Decentralized Agent interaction Memory
Human Behaviors [Ghaffarzadegan Sandbox Pre-defined, Conformity Cooperative Decentralized Environment, Memory
Disease to epidemics et al., 2023] Model-Generated traits Agent interaction
Memory,
Public health [Williams Sandbox Pre-defined, Adults aged Cooperative Decentralized Environment, Dynamic
et al., 2023] Model-Generated 18 to 64 Agent interaction
Generation
Table 1: Summary of the LLM-MA studies. We categorize current work according to their motivation, research domains and goals, and detail
each work from different aspects regarding Agents-Environment Interface, Agents Profiling, Agents Communication and Agents Capability
Acquisition. “-” denotes that a particular element is not specifically mentioned in this work.
4.1.1 Software Development the generated code. [Li et al., 2023b] first proposes a sim-
ple role-play agent framework, which utilizes the interplay
Given that software development is a complex endeavor re- of two roles to realize autonomous programming based on
quiring the collaboration of various roles like product man- one-sentence user instruction. It provides insights into the
agers, programmers, and testers, LLM-MA systems are typ- “cognitive” processes of communicative agents. [Dong et al.,
ically set to emulate these distinct roles and collaborate to 2023b] makes LLMs work as distinct “experts” for sub-tasks
address the intricate challenge. Following the waterfall or in software development, autonomously collaborating to gen-
Standardized Operating Procedures (SOPs) workflow of the erate code. Moreover, [Qian et al., 2023] presents an end-to-
software development, the communication structure among end framework for software development, utilizing multiple
agents is usually layered. Agents generally interact with the agents for software development without incorporating ad-
code interpreter, other agents or human to iteratively refine
===== PAGE 7 =====
vanced human teamwork experience. [Hong et al., 2023] first 4.1.4 Science Debate
incorporates human workflow insights for more controlled LLM-MA can be set for science debating scenarios, where
and validated performance. It encodes SOPs into prompts to agents debate with each other to enhance the collective rea-
enhance structured coordination. [Huang et al., 2023a] delves
soning capabilities in tasks such as Massive Multitask Lan-
deeper into multi-agent based programming by solving the guage Understanding (MMLU) [Hendrycks et al., 2020],
problem of balancing code snippet generation with effective Math problems [Cobbe et al., 2021], and StrategyQA [Geva
test case generation, execution, and optimization.
et al., 2021]. The main idea is that each agent initially of-
fers its own analysis of a problem, which is then followed
by a joint debating process. Through multiple rounds of de-
4.1.2 Embodied Agents
bate, the agents converge on a single, consensus answer. [Du
Most embodied agents applications inherently utilize multi- et al., 2023] leverages the multi-agents debate process on a
ple robots working together to perform complex real-world
set of six different reasoning and factual accuracy tasks and
planning and manipulation tasks such as warehouse manage- demonstrates that LLM-MA debating can improve factual-
ment with heterogeneous robot capabilities. Hence, LLM- ity. [Xiong et al., 2023] focuses on the commonsense rea-
MA can be used to model robots with different capabilities soning tasks and formulates a three-stage debate to align with
and cooperate with each other to solve real-world physical
real-world scenarios including fair debate, mismatched de-
tasks. [Dasgupta et al., 2023] first explores the potential to bate, and roundtable debate. The paper also analyzes the
use LLM as an action planner for embedded agents. [Mandi inter-consistency between different LLMs and claims that de-
]
et al., 2023 introduces RoCo, a novel approach for multi- bating can improve the inter-consistency. [Tang et al., 2023]
robot collaboration that uses LLMs for high-level commu- also utilizes multiple LLM-based agents as distinct domain
nication and low-level path planning. Each robotic arm is experts to do the collaborative discussion on a medical report
equipped with an LLM, cooperating with inverse kinemat- to reach a consensus for medical diagnosis.
ics and collision checking. Experimental results demonstrate
the adaptability and success of RoCo in collaborative tasks. 4.2 LLM-MA for World Simulation
[Zhang et al., 2023c] presents CoELA, a Cooperative Em-
Another mainstream application scenario of LLM-MA is the
bodied Language Agent, managing discussions and task plan-
world simulation. Research in this area is rapidly growing
ning in an LLM-MA setting. This challenging setting is and spans a diverse range of fields including social sciences,
featured with decentralized control, complex partial observa-
gaming, psychology, economics, policy-making, etc. The key
tion, costly communication, and multi-objective long-horizon
reason for employing LLM-MA in world simulations lies in
tasks. [Chen et al., 2023d] investigates communication chal-
their exceptional role-playing abilities, which are crucial for
lenges in scenarios involving a large number of robots, as realistically depicting various roles and viewpoints in a sim-
assigning each robot an LLM will be costly and unpracti-
ulated world. The environment of world simulation projects
cal due to the long context. The study compares four com-
is usually crafted to reflect the specific scenario being simu-
munication frameworks, centralized, decentralized, and two
lated, with agents designed in various profiles to match this
hybrid models, to evaluate their effectiveness in coordinating
context. Unlike the problem solving systems that focus on
complex multi-agent tasks. [Yu et al., 2023] proposes Co-
agent cooperation, world simulation systems involve diverse
NavGPT for multi-robot cooperative visual target navigation,
methods of agent management and communication, reflecting
integrating LLM as a global planner to assign frontier goals
the complexity and variety of real-world interactions. Next,
to each robot. [Chen et al., 2023b] proposes an LLM-based
we explore simulations conducted in diverse fields.
consensus-seeking framework, which can be applied as a co-
operative planner to a multi-robot aggregation task. 4.2.1 Societal Simulation
In societal simulation, LLM-MA models are used to simu-
late social behaviors, aiming to explore the potential social
4.1.3 Science Experiments
dynamics and propagation, test social science theories, and
Like multiple agents play as different specialists and cooper- populate virtual spaces and communities with realistic social
ate to solve the Software Development and Embodied Agents phenomena [Park et al., 2023]. Leveraging LLM’s capabili-
problem, multiple agents can also be used to form a science ties, agents with unique profiles engage in extensive commu-
team to conduct science experiments. One important differ- nication, generating rich behavioral data for in-depth social
ence from previous applications lies in the crucial role of hu- science analysis.
man oversight, due to the high expenses of the science ex- The scale of societal simulation has expanded over time,
periments and the hallucination of the LLM agents. Human beginning with smaller, more intimate settings and progress-
experts are at the center of these agents to process the infor- ing to larger, more intricate ones. Initial work by [Park et al.,
mation of agents and give feedback to the agents. [Zheng et 2023] introduces generative agents within an interactive sand-
al., 2023] utilizes multiple LLM-based agents, each focusing box environment reminiscent of the sims, allowing end users
on specific tasks for the science experiments including strat- to engage with a modest community of 25 agents through nat-
egy planning, literature search, coding, robotic operations, ural language. At the same time, [Park et al., 2022] develops
and labware design. All these agents interact with humans Social Simulacra, which constructs a simulated community
to work collaboratively to optimize the synthesis process of of 1,000 personas. This system takes a designer’s vision for
complex materials. a community—its goals, rules, and member personas—and
===== PAGE 8 =====
simulates it, generating behaviors like posting, replying, and explicit game process, agents may still overlook or modify
even anti-social actions. Building on this, [Gao et al., 2023a] refined beliefs when taking actions.
takes the concept further by constructing vast networks com-
4.2.3 Psychology
prising 8,563 and 17,945 agents, respectively, designed to
In psychological simulation studies, like in the societal simu-
simulate social networks focused on the topics of Gender Dis-
lation, multiple agents are utilized to simulate humans with
crimination and Nuclear Energy. This evolution showcases
various traits and thought processes. However, unlike so-
the increasing complexity and size of simulated environments
cietal simulations, one approach in psychology involves di-
in recent research. Recent studies such as [Chen et al., 2023b;
rectly applying psychological experiments to these agents.
Kaiya et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023a; Li et al., 2023f; Ziems et
] This method focuses on observing and analyzing their varied
al., 2023 highlight the evolving complexity in multi-agent
behaviors through statistical methods. Here, each agent op-
systems, LLM impacts on social networks, and their integra-
erates independently, without interacting with others, essen-
tion into social science research.
tially representing different individuals. Another approach
4.2.2 Gaming aligns more closely with societal simulations, where multiple
agents interact and communicate with each other. In this sce-
LLM-MA is well-suited for creating simulated gaming en-
nario, psychological theories are applied to understand and
vironments, allowing agents to assume various roles within
analyze the emergent behavioral patterns. This method fa-
games. This technology enables the development of con-
cilitates the study of interpersonal dynamics and group be-
trolled, scalable, and dynamic settings that closely mimic
haviors, providing insights into how individual psychological
human interactions, making it ideal for testing a range of
traits influence collective actions. [Ma et al., 2023] explores
game theory hypotheses [Mao et al., 2023; Xu et al., 2023b].
the psychological implications and outcomes of employing
Most games simulated by LLM-MA rely heavily on natu-
LLM-based conversational agents for mental well-being sup-
ral language communication, offering a sandbox environment
port. It emphasizes the need for carefully evaluating the use
within different game settings for exploring or testing game
of LLM-based agents in mental health applications from a
theory hypotheses including reasoning, cooperation, persua-
psychological perspective. [Kovacˇ et al., 2023] introduces
sion, deception, leadership, etc.
a tool named SocialAI school for creating interactive envi-
[Akata et al., 2023] leverages behavioral game theory to
ronments simulating social interactions. It draws from devel-
examine LLMs’ behavior in interactive social settings, partic-
opmental psychology to understand how agents can acquire,
ularly their performance in games like the iterated Prisoner’s
demonstrate, and evolve social skills such as joint attention,
Dilemma and Battle of the Sexes. Furthermore, [Xu et al.,
communication, and cultural learning. [Zhang et al., 2023d]
2023b] proposes a framework using ChatArena library [Wu
explores how LLM agents, with distinct traits and thinking
et al., 2023b] for engaging LLMs in communication games
patterns, emulate human-like social behaviors such as confor-
like Werewolf, using retrieval and reflection on past commu-
mity and majority rule. This integration of psychology into
nications for improvement, as well as the Chain-of-Thought
the understanding of agent collaboration offers a novel lens
mechanism [Wei et al., 2022]. [Light et al., 2023b] explores
for examining and enhancing the mechanisms behind LLM-
the potential of LLM agents in playing Resistance Avalon, in-
based multi-agents systems. [Aher et al., 2023] introduces
troducing AVALONBENCH, a comprehensive game environ-
Turing Experiments to evaluate the extent to which large lan-
ment and benchmark for further developing advanced LLMs
guage models can simulate different aspects of human behav-
and multi-agent frameworks. [Wang et al., 2023c] also fo-
iors. The Turing Experiments replicate classical experiments
cuses on the capabilities of LLM Agents in dealing with mis-
and phenomena in psychology, economics, and sociology us-
information in the Avalon game, proposing the Recursive
ing a question-answering format to mimic experimental con-
Contemplation (ReCon) framework to enhance LLMs’ ability
ditions. They also design a prompt that is used to simulate
to discern and counteract deceptive information. [Xu et al.,
the responses of multiple different individuals by varying the
]
2023c introduces a framework combining LLMs with rein-
name. By simulating various kinds of individuals via LLM,
forcement learning (RL) to develop strategic language agents
they show that larger models replicate human behavior more
for the Werewolf game. It introduces a new approach to use
faithfully, but they also reveal a hyper-accuracy distortion, es-
RL policy in the case that the action and state sets are not pre-
pecially in knowledge-based tasks.
[
defined but in the natural language setting. Mukobi et al.,
2023] designs the “Welfare Diplomacy”, a general-sum vari- 4.2.4 Economy
ant of the zero-sum board game Diplomacy, where players LLM-MA is used to simulate economic and financial trading
must balance military conquest and domestic welfare. It also environments mainly because it can serve as implicit com-
offers an open-source benchmark, aiming to help improve the putational models of humans. In these simulations, agents
cooperation ability of multi-agent AI systems. On top of that, are provided with endowments, and information, and set with
there is a work [Li et al., 2023c] in a multi-agent cooperative pre-defined preferences, allowing for an exploration of their
text game testing the agents’ Theory of Mind (ToM), the abil- actions in economic and financial contexts. This is similar to
ity to reason about the concealed mental states of others and the way economists model ’homo economicus’, the character-
is fundamental to human social interactions, collaborations, ization of man in some economic theories as a rational person
and communications. [Fan et al., 2023] comprehensively as- who pursues wealth for his own self-interest [Horton, 2023].
sesses the capability of LLMs as rational players, and iden- There are several studies demonstrate the diverse applications
tifies the weaknesses of LLM-based Agents that even in the of LLM-MA in simulating economic scenarios, encompass-
===== PAGE 9 =====
Motivation Domain Datasets and Benchmarks Used by Data Link
HumanEval [Hong et al., 2023] Link
Software Development MBPP [Hong et al., 2023] Link
SoftwareDev [Hong et al., 2023] Link
RoCoBench [Mandi et al., 2023] Link
[ ]
Communicative Watch-And-Help (C-WAH) Zhang et al., 2023c Link
Embodied AI
ThreeDWorld Multi-Agent Transport (TDW-MAT) [Zhang et al., 2023c] Link
Problem Solving HM3D v0.2 [Yu et al., 2023] Link
MMLU [Tang et al., 2023] Link
MedQA [Tang et al., 2023] Link
PubMedQA [Tang et al., 2023] Link
Science Debate
GSM8K [Du et al., 2023] Link
StrategyQA [Xiong et al., 2023] Link
Chess Move Validity [Du et al., 2023] Link
[ ]
SOTOPIA Zhou et al., 2023b /
Society Gender Discrimination [Gao et al., 2023a] /
Nuclear Energy [Gao et al., 2023a] /
Werewolf [Xu et al., 2023b] /
Avalon [Light et al., 2023b] /
[ ]
Welfare Diplomacy Mukobi et al., 2023 /
Gaming
Layout in the Overcooked-AI environment [Agashe et al., 2023] /
World Simulation Chameleon [Xu et al., 2023a] Link
Undercover [Xu et al., 2023a] Link
Ultimatum Game TE [Aher et al., 2023] Link
[ ]
Psychology Garden Path TE Aher et al., 2023 Link
Wisdom of Crowds TE [Aher et al., 2023] Link
MovieLens-1M [Zhang et al., 2023a] Link
Recommender System
Amazon review dataset [Zhang et al., 2023e] /
Policy Making Board Connectivity Evaluation [Hua et al., 2023] Link
Table 2: Datasets and Benchmarks commonly used in LLM-MA studies. “ / ” denotes the unavailability of data link.
ing macroeconomic activities, information marketplaces, fi- tween offline metrics and real-world performance in recom-
[ et al. ]
nancial trading, and virtual town simulations. Agents in- mendation systems, Agent4Rec Zhang , 2023a intro-
teract in cooperative or debate, decentralized environments. duces a simulation platform based on LLM-MA. 1000 gener-
[Li et al., 2023e] employs LLMs for macroeconomic simu- ative agents are initialized with the MovieLens-1M dataset to
lation, featuring prompt-engineering-driven agents that emu- simulate complex user interactions in a recommendation en-
late human-like decision-making, thereby enhancing the real- vironment. Agent4Rec shows that LLM-MA can effectively
ism of economic simulations compared to rule-based or other mimic real user preferences and behaviors, provide insights
AI agents. [Anonymous, 2023] explores the buyer’s inspec- into phenomena like the filter bubble effect, and help uncover
tion paradox in an information marketplace, reveals improved causal relationships in recommendation tasks. In Agent4Rec
decision-making and answer quality when agents temporar- work, agents are used to simulate users and they do not com-
ily access information before purchase. [Li et al., 2023g] municate with each other. Different from Agent4Rec work,
presents an LLM-MA framework for financial trading, em- [Zhang et al., 2023e] treats both users and items as agents,
phasizing a layered memory system, debate mechanisms, and optimizing them collectively to reflect and adjust to real-
individualized trading characters, thereby fortifying decision- world interaction disparities. This work emphasizes simulat-
making robustness. [Zhao et al., 2023] utilizes LLM-based ing user-item interactions and propagates preferences among
Agents to simulate a virtual town with restaurant and cus- agents, capturing the collaborative filtering essence.
tomer agents, yielding insights aligned with sociological and
economic theories. These studies collectively illuminate the 4.2.6 Policy Making
broad spectrum of applications and advancements in employ-
Similar to simulations in gaming and economic scenarios,
ing LLMs for diverse economic simulation scenarios.
Policy Making requires strong decision-making capabilities
to realistic and dynamic complex problems. LLM-MA can
4.2.5 Recommender Systems
be used to simulate the policy making via simulating a virtual
The use of the LLM-MA in recommender systems is similar government or simulating the impact of various policies on
to that in psychology since studies in both fields involve the different communities. These simulations provide valuable
consideration of extrinsic and intrinsic human factors such as insights into how policies are formulated and their potential
cognitive processes and personality [Lex and Schedl, 2022]. effects, aiding policymakers in understanding and anticipat-
One way to use LLM-MA in recommender systems is to di- ing the consequences of their decisions [Farmer and Axtell,
] [ ]
rectly introduce items to multiple LLM-based agents within 2022 . The research outlined in Xiao et al., 2023 is cen-
diverse traits and conduct statistics of the preferences of dif- tered on simulating a township water pollution crisis. It sim-
ferent agents. Another way is to treat both users and items ulated a town located on an island including a demographic
as agents and the user-item communication as interactions, structure of different agents and township head and advisor.
simulating the preference propagation. To bridge the gap be- Within the water pollution crisis simulation, this work pro-
===== PAGE 10 =====
vides an in-depth analysis of how a virtual government entity al., 2023] present platforms and libraries for building au-
might respond to such a public administration challenge and tonomous agents, emphasizing their adaptability in task-
how information transfer in the social network in this crisis. solving and social simulations.
[Hua et al., 2023] introduces WarAgent to simulate key his-
torical conflicts and provides insights for conflict resolution 5.2 Datasets and Benchmarks
and understanding, with potential applications in preventing
future international conflicts. We summarize commonly used datasets or benchmarks for
LLM-MA study in Table 2. We observe that different re-
4.2.7 Disease Propagation Simulation
search applications use different datasets and benchmarks.
Leveraging the societal simulation capabilities of LLM-MA
In the Problem solving scenarios, most datasets and bench-
can also be used to simulate disease propagation. The most
marks are used to evaluate the planning and reasoning capa-
recent study in [Williams et al., 2023] delves into the use of
bilities by Multiple agents cooperation or debate. In World
LLM-MA in simulating disease spread. The research show-
Simulation scenarios, datasets and benchmarks are used to
cases through various simulations how these LLM-based
evaluate the alignment between the simulated world and real-
agents can accurately emulate human responses to disease
world or analyze the behaviors of different agents. However,
outbreaks, including behaviors like self-quarantine and iso-
in certain research applications like Science Team operations
lation during heightened case numbers. The collective be-
for experiments and economic modeling, there is still a need
havior of these agents mirrors the complex patterns of multi-
for comprehensive benchmarks. The development of such
ple waves typically seen in pandemics, eventually stabilizing
benchmarks would greatly enhance the ability to gauge the
into an endemic state. Impressively, their actions contribute
success and applicability of LLM-MA in these complex and
[ et
to the attenuation of the epidemic curve. Ghaffarzadegan
dynamic fields.
al., 2023] also discusses the epidemic propagation simulation
and decomposes the simulation into two parts: the Mechanis-
tic Model which represents the information or propagation of 6 Challenges and Opportunities
the virus and the Decision-Making Model which represents
the agents’ decision-making process when facing the virus. Studies of LLM-MA frameworks and applications are ad-
vancing rapidly, giving rise to numerous challenges and op-
portunities. We identified several critical challenges and po-
5 Implementation Tools and Resources
tential areas for future study.
5.1 Multi-Agents Framework
We provide a detailed introduction to three open-source
6.1 Advancing into Multi-Modal Environment
multi-agent frameworks: MetaGPT [Hong et al., 2023],
[ ] [ ]
CAMEL Li et al., 2023b , and Autogen Wu et al., 2023a . Most previous work on LLM-MA has been focused on text-
They are all frameworks that utilize language models for
based environments, excelling in processing and generating
complex task-solving with a focus on multi-agent collabora- text. However, there is a notable lack in multi-modal set-
tion, but they differ in their approaches and applications. tings, where agents would interact with and interpret data
MetaGPT is designed to embed human workflow processes from multiple sensory inputs and generate multiple outputs
into the operation of language model agents, thereby reducing
such as images, audio, video, and physical actions. Inte-
the hallucination problem that often arises in complex tasks. grating LLMs into multi-modal environments presents addi-
It does this by encoding Standard Operating Procedures into tional challenges, such as processing diverse data types and
the system and using an assembly line approach to assign spe-
enabling agents to understand each other and respond to more
cific roles to different agents. than just textual information.
CAMEL, or Communicative Agent Framework, is oriented
towards facilitating autonomous cooperation among agents. 6.2 Addressing Hallucination
It uses a novel technique called inception prompting to guide
conversational agents towards fulfilling tasks that are consis- The hallucination problem is a significant challenge in LLMs
tent with human objectives. This framework also serves as a and single LLM-based Agent systems. It refers to the phe-
tool for generating and studying conversational data, help- nomenon where the model generates text that is factually in-
ing researchers understand how communicative agents be- correct [Huang et al., 2023b]. However, this problem takes
have and interact. on an added layer of complexity in a multi-agent setting. In
AutoGen is a versatile framework that allows for the cre- such scenarios, one agent’s hallucination can have a cascad-
ation of applications using language models. It is distinctive ing effect. This is due to the interconnected nature of multi-
for its high level of customization, enabling developers to pro- agent systems, where misinformation from one agent can be
gram agents using both natural language and code to define accepted and further propagated by others in the network.
how these agents interact. This versatility enables its use in Therefore, detecting and mitigating hallucinations in LLM-
diverse fields, from technical areas such as coding and math- MA is not just a crucial task but also presents a unique set
ematics to consumer-focused sectors like entertainment. of challenges. It involves not only correcting inaccuracies at
More recently, [Chen et al., 2023c; Chen et al., 2023a] the level of individual agents but also managing the flow of
introduce frameworks for dynamic multi-agent collabora- information between agents to prevent the spread of these in-
[ et al. et al. et
tion, while Zhou , 2023a; Li , 2023h; Xie accuracies throughout the system.
===== PAGE 11 =====
6.3 Acquiring Collective Intelligence overlook the broader and more complex emergent behaviors
In traditional multi-agent systems, agents often use reinforce- that are integral to multi-agent systems. Secondly, there is a
ment learning to learn from offline training datasets. How- notable shortfall in the development of comprehensive bench-
marks across several research domains, such as Science Team
ever, LLM-MA systems mainly learn from instant feedback,
for Experiment Operations, Economic analysis, and Disease
such as interactions with the environment or humans, as we
discussed in Section 3. This learning style requires a reli- propagation simulation. This gap presents an obstacle to ac-
curately assessing and benchmarking the full capabilities of
able interactive environment and it would be tricky to design
LLM-MA systems in these varied and crucial fields.
such an interactive environment for many tasks, limiting the
scalability of LLM-MA systems. Moreover, the prevailing
6.6 Applications and Beyond
approaches in current research involve employing Memory
The potential of LLM-MA systems extends far beyond their
and Self-Evolution techniques to adjust agents based on feed-
current applications, holding great promise for advanced
back. While effective for individual agents, these methods do
computational problem-solving in fields such as finance, edu-
not fully capitalize on the potential collective intelligence of
cation, healthcare, environmental science, urban planning and
the agent network. They adjust agents in isolation, overlook-
so on. As we have discussed, LLM-MA systems possess the
ing the synergistic effects that can emerge from coordinated
capability to tackle complex problems and simulate various
multi-agent interactions. Hence, jointly adjusting multiple
aspects of the real world. While the current role-playing ca-
agents and achieving optimal collective intelligence is still a
pabilities of LLMs may have limitations, ongoing advance-
critical challenge for LLM-MA.
ments in LLM technology suggest a bright future. It is an-
6.4 Scaling Up LLM-MA Systems ticipated to have more sophisticated methodologies, applica-
LLM-MA systems are composed of a number of individual tions, datasets, and benchmarks tailored for diverse research
fields. Furthermore, there are opportunities to explore LLM-
LLM-based agents, posing a significant challenge of scala-
MA systems from various theoretical perspectives, such as
bility regarding the number of agents. From the computa-
Cognitive Science [Sumers et al., 2023], Symbolic Artificial
tional complexity perspective, each LLM-based agent, typ-
ically built on large language models like GPT-4, demands Intelligence, Cybernetics, Complex Systems, and Collective
Intelligence. Such a multi-faceted approach could contribute
substantial computational power and memory. Scaling up the
to a more comprehensive understanding and innovative appli-
number of these agents in an LLM-MA system significantly
cations in this rapidly evolving field.
increases resource requirements. In scenarios with limited
computational resource, it would be challenging to develop
7 Conclusion
these LLM-MA systems.
Additionally, as the number of agents in an LLM-MA sys- LLM-based Multi-Agents have shown inspiring collective in-
tem increases, additional complexities and research opportu- telligence and rapidly garnered increasing interest among re-
nities emerge, particularly in areas like efficient agent coor- searchers. In this survey, we first systematically review the
dination, communication, and understanding the scaling laws development of LLM-MA systems by positioning, differen-
of multi-agents. For instance, with more LLM-based agents, tiating, and connecting them from various aspects, regard-
the intricacy of ensuring effective coordination and commu- ing the agents-environment interface, the characterization of
nication rises significantly. As highlighted in [Dibia, 2023], agents by LLMs, the strategies for managing agent communi-
designing advanced Agents Orchestration methodologies is cation and the paradigms for capability acquisition. We also
increasingly important. These methodologies aim to opti- summarized LLM-MA applications for problem-solving and
mize agents workflows, task assignments tailored to differ- world simulation. By also highlighting the commonly used
ent agents, and communication patterns across agents such as datasets and benchmarks and discussing challenges and fu-
communication constraints between agents. Effective Agents ture opportunities, we hope that this survey can serve as a use-
Orchestration facilitates harmonious operation among agents, ful resource for researchers across various research fields, in-
minimizing conflicts and redundancies. Additionally, explor-
spiring future research to explore the potential of LLM-based
ing and defining the scaling laws that govern the behavior and Multi-Agents.
efficiency of multi-agent systems as they grow larger remains
an important area of research. These aspects highlight the References
need for innovative solutions to optimize LLM-MA systems,
[ et al. ]
Agashe , 2023 Saaket Agashe, Yue Fan, and Xin Eric
making them both effective and resource-efficient.
Wang. Evaluating multi-agent coordination abilities in
large language models, 2023.
6.5 Evaluation and Benchmarks
[ et al. ]
We have summarized the datasets and benchmarks currently Aher , 2023 Gati Aher, Rosa I. Arriaga, and
Adam Tauman Kalai. Using large language models
available for LLM-MA in Table 2. This is a starting point, and
to simulate multiple humans and replicate human subject
far from being comprehensive. We identify two significant
studies, 2023.
challenges in evaluating LLM-MA systems and benchmark-
ing their performance against each other. Firstly, as discussed [Akata et al., 2023] Elif Akata, Lion Schulz, Julian Coda-
in [Xu et al., 2023a], much of the existing research focuses Forno, Seong Joon Oh, Matthias Bethge, and Eric Schulz.
on evaluating individual agents’ understanding and reason- Playing repeated games with large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.16867
ing within narrowly defined scenarios. This focus tends to , 2023.
===== PAGE 12 =====
[Anonymous, 2023] Anonymous. Rethinking the buyer’s in- [Farmer and Axtell, 2022] J. Doyne Farmer and Robert L.
spection paradox in information markets with language Axtell. Agent-Based Modeling in Economics and Finance:
Submitted to The Twelfth International Con-
agents. In Past, Present, and Future. INET Oxford Working Papers
ference on Learning Representations, 2023. under review. 2022-10, Institute for New Economic Thinking at the Ox-
ford Martin School, University of Oxford, June 2022.
[Chan et al., 2023] Chi-Min Chan, Weize Chen, Yusheng
Su, Jianxuan Yu, Wei Xue, Shanghang Zhang, Jie Fu, and [Gao et al., 2023a] Chen Gao, Xiaochong Lan, Zhihong Lu,
Zhiyuan Liu. Chateval: Towards better llm-based evalua-
Jinzhu Mao, Jinghua Piao, Huandong Wang, Depeng Jin,
tors through multi-agent debate, 2023. 3
and Yong Li. S : Social-network simulation system with
large language model-empowered agents. arXiv preprint
[Chen et al., 2023a] Guangyao Chen, Siwei Dong, Yu Shu,
arXiv:2307.14984, 2023.
Ge Zhang, Jaward Sesay, Bo¨ rje F Karlsson, Jie Fu, and
Yemin Shi. Autoagents: A framework for automatic agent
[Gao et al., 2023b] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao,
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.17288, 2023.
Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei
[Chen et al., 2023b] Huaben Chen, Wenkang Ji, Lufeng Xu, Sun, and Haofen Wang. Retrieval-augmented generation
arXiv preprint
and Shiyu Zhao. Multi-agent consensus seeking via large for large language models: A survey.
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.20151, 2023. arXiv:2312.10997, 2023.
[Chen et al., 2023c] Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, [Geva et al., 2021] Mor Geva, Daniel Khashabi, Elad Segal,
Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chen Qian, Chi-Min Chan, Tushar Khot, Dan Roth, and Jonathan Berant. Did aris-
Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Ruobing Xie, et al. Agentverse: Facil-
totle use a laptop? a question answering benchmark with
itating multi-agent collaboration and exploring emergent
implicit reasoning strategies, 2021.
behaviors in agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10848,
[Ghaffarzadegan et al., 2023] Navid Ghaffarzadegan, Aritra
2023.
Majumdar, Ross Williams, and Niyousha Hosseinichimeh.
[Chen et al., 2023d] Yongchao Chen, Jacob Arkin, Yang
Generative agent-based modeling: Unveiling social sys-
Zhang, Nicholas Roy, and Chuchu Fan. Scalable multi-
tem dynamics through coupling mechanistic models
robot collaboration with large language models: Cen-
with generative artificial intelligence. arXiv preprint
tralized or decentralized systems? arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.11456
, 2023.
arXiv:2309.15943, 2023.
[ ]
Guo et al., 2023 Taicheng Guo, Kehan Guo, Zhengwen
[Cobbe et al., 2021] Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Moham-
Liang, Zhichun Guo, Nitesh V Chawla, Olaf Wiest, Xi-
mad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser,
angliang Zhang, et al. What indeed can gpt models do
Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro
in chemistry? a comprehensive benchmark on eight tasks.
Nakano, et al. Training verifiers to solve math word prob-
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.18365, 2023.
lems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.14168, 2021.
[ ] [Hendrycks et al., 2020] Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns,
Dasgupta et al., 2023 Ishita Dasgupta, Christine Kaeser-
Chen, Kenneth Marino, Arun Ahuja, Sheila Babayan, Steven Basart, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song,
and Jacob Steinhardt. Measuring massive multitask lan-
Felix Hill, and Rob Fergus. Collaborating with lan-
guage understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.03300,
guage models for embodied reasoning. arXiv preprint
2020.
arXiv:2302.00763, 2023.
[Dibia, 2023] Victor Dibia. Multi-agent llm applica- [Hong et al., 2023] Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan
tions — a review of current research, tools, and Chen, Yuheng Cheng, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven
Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, Chenyu Ran,
challenges. https://newsletter.victordibia.com/p/
et al. Metagpt: Meta programming for multi-agent col-
multi-agent-llm-applications-a-review, 2023.
laborative framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.00352,
[Dong et al., 2023a] Qingxiu Dong, Lei Li, Damai Dai,
2023.
Ce Zheng, Zhiyong Wu, Baobao Chang, Xu Sun, Jingjing
Xu, Lei Li, and Zhifang Sui. A survey on in-context learn- [Horton, 2023] John J Horton. Large language models as
ing, 2023. simulated economic agents: What can we learn from homo
silicus? Technical report, National Bureau of Economic
[Dong et al., 2023b] Yihong Dong, Xue Jiang, Zhi Jin, and
Research, 2023.
Ge Li. Self-collaboration code generation via chatgpt,
2023. [Hua et al., 2023] Wenyue Hua, Lizhou Fan, Lingyao Li,
[Du et al., 2023] Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Kai Mei, Jianchao Ji, Yingqiang Ge, Libby Hemphill, and
Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. Improving fac- Yongfeng Zhang. War and peace (waragent): Large lan-
guage model-based multi-agent simulation of world wars,
tuality and reasoning in language models through multia-
2023.
gent debate, 2023.
[Fan et al., 2023] Caoyun Fan, Jindou Chen, Yaohui Jin, and [Huang et al., 2023a] Dong Huang, Qingwen Bu, Jie M.
Hao He. Can large language models serve as rational play- Zhang, Michael Luck, and Heming Cui. Agentcoder:
ers in game theory? a systematic analysis. arXiv preprint Multi-agent-based code generation with iterative testing
arXiv:2312.05488
, 2023. and optimisation, 2023.
===== PAGE 13 =====
[Huang et al., 2023b] Lei Huang, Weijiang Yu, Weitao Ma, large language model driven social bots in online social
Weihong Zhong, Zhangyin Feng, Haotian Wang, Qiang- networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.10337, 2023.
long Chen, Weihua Peng, Xiaocheng Feng, Bing Qin, et al.
[Li et al., 2023g] Yang Li, Yangyang Yu, Haohang Li, Zhi
A survey on hallucination in large language models: Prin-
Chen, and Khaldoun Khashanah. Tradinggpt: Multi-agent
ciples, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions. arXiv
system with layered memory and distinct characters for
preprint arXiv:2311.05232, 2023.
enhanced financial trading performance, 2023.
[ et al. ]
Kaiya , 2023 Zhao Kaiya, Michelangelo Naim, Jo-
[Li et al., 2023h] Yuan Li, Yixuan Zhang, and Lichao Sun.
vana Kondic, Manuel Cortes, Jiaxin Ge, Shuying Luo,
Metaagents: Simulating interactions of human behaviors
Guangyu Robert Yang, and Andrew Ahn. Lyfe agents:
for llm-based task-oriented coordination via collaborative
Generative agents for low-cost real-time social interac-
generative agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06500, 2023.
tions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.02172, 2023.
[Liang et al., 2023] Zhenwen Liang, Wenhao Yu, Tanmay
[Khot et al., 2023] Tushar Khot, Harsh Trivedi, Matthew
Rajpurohit, Peter Clark, Xiangliang Zhang, and Ashwin
Finlayson, Yao Fu, Kyle Richardson, Peter Clark, and
Kaylan. Let gpt be a math tutor: Teaching math word prob-
Ashish Sabharwal. Decomposed prompting: A modular
approach for solving complex tasks, 2023. lem solvers with customized exercise generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.14386, 2023.
[Kovacˇ et al., 2023] Grgur Kovacˇ , Re´ my Portelas, Peter Ford
[Light et al., 2023a] Jonathan Light, Min Cai, Sheng Shen,
Dominey, and Pierre-Yves Oudeyer. The socialai school:
and Ziniu Hu. Avalonbench: Evaluating llms playing the
Insights from developmental psychology towards artificial
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07871 game of avalon, 2023.
socio-cultural agents. ,
2023.
[Light et al., 2023b] Jonathan Light, Min Cai, Sheng Shen,
[Lewis et al., 2021] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksan- and Ziniu Hu. From text to tactic: Evaluating llms play-
ing the game of avalon. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.05036,
dra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman
2023.
Goyal, Heinrich Ku¨ ttler, Mike Lewis, Wen tau Yih,
Tim Rockta¨ schel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela.
[Liu et al., 2023] Zijun Liu, Yanzhe Zhang, Peng Li, Yang
Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive
Liu, and Diyi Yang. Dynamic llm-agent network: An llm-
nlp tasks, 2021.
agent collaboration framework with agent team optimiza-
[ ] tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.02170, 2023.
Lex and Schedl, 2022 Elisabeth Lex and Markus Schedl.
Psychology-informed recommender systems: A human-
[Ma et al., 2023] Zilin Ma, Yiyang Mei, and Zhaoyuan Su.
centric perspective on recommender systems. In Proceed-
Understanding the benefits and challenges of using large
ings of the 2022 Conference on Human Information In-
language model-based conversational agents for mental
teraction and Retrieval, CHIIR ’22, page 367–368, New
well-being support. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15810,
York, NY, USA, 2022. Association for Computing Ma-
2023.
chinery.
[Mandi et al., 2023] Zhao Mandi, Shreeya Jain, and Shuran
[Li et al., 2023a] Chao Li, Xing Su, Chao Fan, Haoying Han,
Song. Roco: Dialectic multi-robot collaboration with large
Cong Xue, and Chunmo Zheng. Quantifying the impact
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04738, 2023.
of large language models on collective opinion dynamics.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.03313, 2023. [Mao et al., 2023] Shaoguang Mao, Yuzhe Cai, Yan Xia,
Wenshan Wu, Xun Wang, Fengyi Wang, Tao Ge, and Furu
[Li et al., 2023b] Guohao Li, Hasan Abed Al Kader Ham-
Wei. Alympics: Language agents meet game theory. arXiv
moud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard
preprint arXiv:2311.03220, 2023.
Ghanem. Camel: Communicative agents for” mind” ex-
ploration of large scale language model society. arXiv [Moura, 2023] Joa˜ o Moura. Crewai. https://github.com/
preprint arXiv:2303.17760, 2023. joaomdmoura/crewAI, 2023.
[ et al. ]
Li , 2023c Huao Li, Yu Quan Chong, Simon Stepput- [Mukobi et al., 2023] Gabriel Mukobi, Hannah Erlebach,
tis, Joseph Campbell, Dana Hughes, Michael Lewis, and
Niklas Lauffer, Lewis Hammond, Alan Chan, and Jesse
Katia Sycara. Theory of mind for multi-agent collabora-
Clifton. Welfare diplomacy: Benchmarking language
tion via large language models, 2023. model cooperation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08901,
[ et al. ] 2023.
Li , 2023d Minghao Li, Yingxiu Zhao, Bowen Yu,
Feifan Song, Hangyu Li, Haiyang Yu, Zhoujun Li, Fei
[Nascimento et al., 2023] Nathalia Nascimento, Paulo Alen-
Huang, and Yongbin Li. Api-bank: A comprehensive
car, and Donald Cowan. Self-adaptive large language
benchmark for tool-augmented llms, 2023. 2023 IEEE
model (llm)-based multiagent systems. In
[ et al. ] International Conference on Autonomic Computing and
Li , 2023e Nian Li, Chen Gao, Yong Li, and Qingmin
Liao. Large language model-empowered agents for simu- Self-Organizing Systems Companion (ACSOS-C), pages
lating macroeconomic activities, 2023. 104–109. IEEE, 2023.
[Li et al., 2023f] Siyu Li, Jin Yang, and Kui Zhao. Are you [Park et al., 2022] Joon Sung Park, Lindsay Popowski, Car-
in a masquerade? exploring the behavior and impact of rie Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and
===== PAGE 14 =====
Michael S Bernstein. Social simulacra: Creating popu- [Weng, 2023] Lilian Weng. Llm powered au-
lated prototypes for social computing systems. In Pro- tonomous agents. https://lilianweng.github.io/posts/
ceedings of the 35th Annual ACM Symposium on User In-
2023-06-23-agent/, 2023.
terface Software and Technology, pages 1–18, 2022.
[ ]
Williams et al., 2023 Ross Williams, Niyousha Hos-
[Park et al., 2023] Joon Sung Park, Joseph C O’Brien, Car- seinichimeh, Aritra Majumdar, and Navid Ghaffarzade-
rie J Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and gan. Epidemic modeling with generative agents. arXiv
Michael S Bernstein. Generative agents: Interac- preprint arXiv:2307.04986, 2023.
tive simulacra of human behavior. arXiv preprint
[Wooldridge and Jennings, 1995] Michael Wooldridge and
arXiv:2304.03442, 2023.
Nicholas R. Jennings. Intelligent agents: theory and prac-
[Qian et al., 2023] Chen Qian, Xin Cong, Wei Liu, Cheng The Knowledge Engineering Review
tice. , 10:115 – 152,
Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, 1995.
Juyuan Xu, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun.
[Wu et al., 2023a] Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang,
Communicative agents for software development, 2023.
Yiran Wu, Shaokun Zhang, Erkang Zhu, Beibin Li,
[Ruan et al., 2023] Jingqing Ruan, Yihong Chen, Bin Zhang,
Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang, and Chi Wang. Autogen: En-
Zhiwei Xu, Tianpeng Bao, Guoqing Du, Shiwei Shi,
abling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversa-
Hangyu Mao, Ziyue Li, Xingyu Zeng, and Rui Zhao. Tptu: tion framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08155, 2023.
Large language model-based ai agents for task planning
[ ]
and tool usage, 2023. Wu et al., 2023b Yuxiang Wu, Zhengyao Jiang, Akbir
Khan, Yao Fu, Laura Ruis, Edward Grefenstette, and Tim
[Russell and Norvig, 2009] Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig.
Rockta¨ schel. Chatarena: Multi-agent language game en-
Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. Prentice Hall
vironments for large language models. GitHub repository,
Press, USA, 3rd edition, 2009.
2023.
[ et al. ]
Shinn , 2023 Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Edward
[Xi et al., 2023] Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo,
Berman, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and
Wei He, Yiwen Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang, Jun-
Shunyu Yao. Reflexion: Language agents with verbal re-
zhe Wang, Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, Rui Zheng, Xiaoran
inforcement learning, 2023.
Fan, Xiao Wang, Limao Xiong, Yuhao Zhou, Weiran
[ ]
Sumers et al., 2023 Theodore R Sumers, Shunyu Yao, Wang, Changhao Jiang, Yicheng Zou, Xiangyang Liu,
Karthik Narasimhan, and Thomas L Griffiths. Cogni- Zhangyue Yin, Shihan Dou, Rongxiang Weng, Wensen
tive architectures for language agents. arXiv preprint Cheng, Qi Zhang, Wenjuan Qin, Yongyan Zheng, Xipeng
arXiv:2309.02427, 2023. Qiu, Xuanjing Huang, and Tao Gui. The rise and potential
of large language model based agents: A survey, 2023.
[Tang et al., 2023] Xiangru Tang, Anni Zou, Zhuosheng
Zhang, Yilun Zhao, Xingyao Zhang, Arman Cohan, and [Xiao et al., 2023] Bushi Xiao, Ziyuan Yin, and Zixuan
Mark Gerstein. Medagents: Large language models as col-
Shan. Simulating public administration crisis: A novel
laborators for zero-shot medical reasoning, 2023. generative agent-based simulation system to lower tech-
nology barriers in social science research. arXiv preprint
[Wang et al., 2021] Zijie J. Wang, Dongjin Choi, Shenyu
arXiv:2311.06957, 2023.
Xu, and Diyi Yang. Putting humans in the natural lan-
guage processing loop: A survey, 2021.
[Xie et al., 2023] Tianbao Xie, Fan Zhou, Zhoujun Cheng,
[Wang et al., 2023a] Kuan Wang, Yadong Lu, Michael San- Peng Shi, Luoxuan Weng, Yitao Liu, Toh Jing Hua, Jun-
ning Zhao, Qian Liu, Che Liu, et al. Openagents: An open
tacroce, Yeyun Gong, Chao Zhang, and Yelong Shen.
platform for language agents in the wild. arXiv preprint
Adapting llm agents through communication, 2023.
arXiv:2310.10634, 2023.
[Wang et al., 2023b] Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng,
[Xiong et al., 2023] Kai Xiong, Xiao Ding, Yixin Cao, Ting
Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Ji-
akai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Liu, and Bing Qin. Examining inter-consistency of large
Wei, and Ji-Rong Wen. A survey on large language model language models collaboration: An in-depth analysis via
debate, 2023.
based autonomous agents, 2023.
[ ] [Xu et al., 2023a] Lin Xu, Zhiyuan Hu, Daquan Zhou,
Wang et al., 2023c Shenzhi Wang, Chang Liu, Zilong
Zheng, Siyuan Qi, Shuo Chen, Qisen Yang, Andrew Zhao, Hongyu Ren, Zhen Dong, Kurt Keutzer, See Kiong Ng,
Chaofei Wang, Shiji Song, and Gao Huang. Avalon’s game and Jiashi Feng. Magic: Investigation of large language
of thoughts: Battle against deception through recursive model powered multi-agent in cognition, adaptability, ra-
tionality and collaboration, 2023.
contemplation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.01320, 2023.
[ ] [ ]
Wei et al., 2022 Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuur- Xu et al., 2023b Yuzhuang Xu, Shuo Wang, Peng Li,
mans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Fuwen Luo, Xiaolong Wang, Weidong Liu, and Yang
Denny Zhou, et al. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits Liu. Exploring large language models for communication
reasoning in large language models. Advances in Neural games: An empirical study on werewolf. arXiv preprint
Information Processing Systems arXiv:2309.04658
, 35:24824–24837, 2022. , 2023.
===== PAGE 15 =====
[Xu et al., 2023c] Zelai Xu, Chao Yu, Fei Fang, Yu Wang, large language models transform computational social sci-
and Yi Wu. Language agents with reinforcement learning ence? Computational Linguistics, pages 1–53, 2023.
arXiv preprint
for strategic play in the werewolf game.
arXiv:2310.18940, 2023.
[Yao et al., 2023] Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak
Shafran, Thomas L. Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik
Narasimhan. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving
with large language models, 2023.
[Yu et al., 2023] Bangguo Yu, Hamidreza Kasaei, and Ming
Cao. Co-navgpt: Multi-robot cooperative visual semantic
navigation using large language models, 2023.
[Zhang et al., 2023a] An Zhang, Leheng Sheng, Yuxin
Chen, Hao Li, Yang Deng, Xiang Wang, and Tat-Seng
Chua. On generative agents in recommendation, 2023.
[Zhang et al., 2023b] Ceyao Zhang, Kaijie Yang, Siyi Hu,
Zihao Wang, Guanghe Li, Yihang Sun, Cheng Zhang,
Zhaowei Zhang, Anji Liu, Song-Chun Zhu, et al. Proa-
gent: Building proactive cooperative ai with large lan-
guage models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.11339, 2023.
[Zhang et al., 2023c] Hongxin Zhang, Weihua Du, Jiaming
Shan, Qinhong Zhou, Yilun Du, Joshua B Tenenbaum,
Tianmin Shu, and Chuang Gan. Building cooperative
embodied agents modularly with large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.02485, 2023.
[Zhang et al., 2023d] Jintian Zhang, Xin Xu, and Shumin
Deng. Exploring collaboration mechanisms for llm agents:
A social psychology view, 2023.
[Zhang et al., 2023e] Junjie Zhang, Yupeng Hou, Ruobing
Xie, Wenqi Sun, Julian McAuley, Wayne Xin Zhao, Leyu
Lin, and Ji-Rong Wen. Agentcf: Collaborative learning
with autonomous language agents for recommender sys-
tems, 2023.
[Zhao et al., 2023] Qinlin Zhao, Jindong Wang, Yixuan
Zhang, Yiqiao Jin, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, and Xing Xie.
Competeai: Understanding the competition behaviors in
large language model-based agents, 2023.
[Zheng et al., 2023] Zhiling Zheng, Oufan Zhang, Ha L.
Nguyen, Nakul Rampal, Ali H. Alawadhi, Zichao Rong,
Teresa Head-Gordon, Christian Borgs, Jennifer T. Chayes,
and Omar M. Yaghi. Chatgpt research group for optimiz-
ing the crystallinity of mofs and cofs. ACS Central Sci-
ence, 9(11):2161–2170, 2023.
[Zhou et al., 2023a] Wangchunshu Zhou, Yuchen Eleanor
Jiang, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Shi Qiu, Jin-
tian Zhang, Jing Chen, Ruipu Wu, Shuai Wang, et al.
Agents: An open-source framework for autonomous lan-
guage agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.07870, 2023.
[Zhou et al., 2023b] Xuhui Zhou, Hao Zhu, Leena Mathur,
Ruohong Zhang, Haofei Yu, Zhengyang Qi, Louis-
Philippe Morency, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Graham
Neubig, and Maarten Sap. Sotopia: Interactive evaluation
for social intelligence in language agents, 2023.
[Ziems et al., 2023] Caleb Ziems, Omar Shaikh, Zhehao
Zhang, William Held, Jiaao Chen, and Diyi Yang. Can
